 Vaibhav gotta
 Vg663
  Home work 10

 Lecture 59
1. Why might it be difﬁcult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic protocol?
There are so many possibilities of how you define attack, you can't really generalize it.
2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.
Transactions can be redone. Money could be faked.
3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.
Yes, you could be aiming to simply take down communication.
4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?
They can access all communication and corrupt it
5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?
If one is compromised, the test are not
Lecture 60
1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?
Yes, however, you could not confirm if it was a new message or a relay
2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.
   A. Tell S who sender receiver and message id is
   B. Tell A shared key for B
   C. Tell B the shared key
   D. Tell A messages is fresh
   E. Tell B message is done
Lecture 61
1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised, how could A still be impersonated?
B would think that A still uses old key because S never communicated with B to inform that the old key is invalid
2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?
Most definitely
3. How might you address these ﬂaws if you were the protocol designer?
Add a step for S to confirm to B about A's status
Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?
Sessions would help prevent interceptions
2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees does not or vice versa?
B is always aware if a message is a relay in needham with high probability
3. How could you ﬁx the ﬂawed protocol from slide 4?
You could encrypt the K before sending it with an extra lock that B puts it own lock on after which A unlocks its lock and sends it back
Lecture 63
1. Why is the veriﬁcation of protocols important?
We want to make sure they do what they chain to do
2. What is a belief logic?
Belief logics allow reasoning about what principals within the protocol should be able to infer from the messages they see. Allows abstract proofs, but may miss some important ﬂaws.
3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?
The protocol it's based on some security ideal which is based on the beliefs of the people which created it
Lecture 64
1. What is a modal logic?
A way to mathematically represent belief
2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.
If A believes (A share(K) B) and A sees {X}K then A believes(B said X).
3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce veriﬁcation inference rule.
If A believes X is fresh and A believes B once said X, then A believes B believes X
4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.
If A believes B has jurisdiction over X and A believes B believes X, then A believes X.
5. What is idealization and why is it needed?
Getting from protocol steps to modal logic. It's a way to abstractly verify protocols
Lecture 65
1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?
You should never send plaintext as it can be caught by an interceptor. You should not have to consider it
2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the
protocol. Why would that be?
It acts as a certification method to check that we meet that at all points
3. One beneﬁt of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.
It allows you to break down step by step seeing how and where you make any assumptions which you didn't consider initially.
