CS361 Questions: Week 10
vg6663
Vaibhav Gupta

Lecture 53
1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable?
	So we can't use the same signature to trick others into beleiving we used them too
2. Why is the hash of the message typically signed?
	thats usually a 1-to-1 mapping
3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?
	only s could have sent the message

Lecture 54
1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?
	it vouches for the authenticity of the public key to let you know it is who it says it is
2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the first message with its private key?
	that way it can double check and confirm that it is indeed untampered with
3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?
	because we want to verify they key and the sender
4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy?
	then we cannot be sure of the hash either

Lecture 55
1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?
	it must be unimpeachable
2. Why does an X.509 certificate include a “validity interval?”
	for added security, so you have to check it more often and update it more often
3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?
	we cannot verify it, could be due to many reasons, time is over, wrong key, wrong sender

Lecture 56
1. What are some protocols previously discussed?
	one time pad
2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?
	it will not succeed and you will not be able to relay data accross
3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4? 
	because both sender and receiver must unlock the message
4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.
	xor can be reversible if an attacker stores all 3 middle man
5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6.
	 [(M⊕Ka)⊕Kb]⊕[(M⊕Ka)⊕Kb⊕Ka]
6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.
	 [(M⊕Ka)⊕Kb]⊕[M⊕Ka]
7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and easy to get wrong?
	its hard to make it so eavesdroppers will not have enough information to retreive original messages

Lecture 57
1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the internet.
	the entire internet is assimilated of protocols
2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the internet.
	banking? credit cards? emails? anything private
3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?
	A and B have already trust each other
4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?
	to share key K between A nad B without outsider knowledge
5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.
	no refer to 6
6. How is the protocol in slide 6 flawed?
	no because you are trying to authenticate B and A to each other, but you dont know if their key's are being tricked or not

Lecture 58
1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages?
	So that both principals are aware of this
2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent in the clear?
	Because that could mean the ecryption could be broken as that infromation may be easy to pick out for malicious attackers