Vaibhav Gupta
vg6663
hw 12

Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
	create an easy to use email encryption system
3. Does PGP provide effective security?
	considering the government doesnt like it, most likely it is
4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
	in case an incident like the 2003 or 2006 issue happens there would be a possibility to fix it or more likely prevent in the first place

Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
	Sender creates a message M.
	Sender generates a hash of M.
	Sender signs the hash using his private key and prepends the result to the message.
	Receiver uses the sender’s public key to verify the signature and recover the hash code.
	Receiver generates a new hash code for M and compares it with the decrypted hash code.
2. Explain the PGP conﬁdentiality protocol.
	Sender generates a message M and a random session key K.
	M is encrypted using key K.
	K is encrypted using the recipient’s public key, and prepended to the message.
	Receiver uses his private key to recover the session key.
	The session key is used to decrypt the message.
3. How do you get both authentication and conﬁdentiality?
	authencity on the original message
	confidentiality to the resulting message

Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and conﬁdentiality, what other “services” does PGP provide?
	compression, email compatibity, and segmentation
2. Why is compression needed?
	encryption after compression is better cause there is less redundancy after compression
3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
	then the signature will be the same regardless of any compression method
4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
	it replaces certain bit strings into ascii strings so that emails wont confuse them as commands
5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
	emails limit how large of an email you can send thus you may have a very large message which is split up

Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
	session keys, public keys, private keys, passphrase-based keys
2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
	session keys - one time use and new ones generated for each message
3. How are session keys generated?
	Encryption algo generates a new n-bit key from prev session key and n/2-bit blocks generated based on use keystrokes + timings
4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated?
	keep generating an odd number of n bits until n is prime
5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
	encrypted with a user password. its to make sure they would be no way to geuss the private key

Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
	each user has an id which is unique with a very high probability
2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
	timestamp, key id, public key, private key, user id
3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
	timestamp, key id, public key, user id
4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
	retrive private key from private key ring uing key id
	decrypt private key wuth user pass
	recover session key and decrypt message
5. What is the key legitimacy ﬁeld for?
	indicates the extent to which PGP trusts that this is a valid public key for this user
6. How is a key revoked?
	owner issues a signed key revocation certificate, recipients are expected to update their public key rings
	