Vaibhav Gupta
hw 13
vg6663

Lecture 71

1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which do you think would be more prevalent?
consumer:  the attacker gets logically between the client and service and somehow disrupts the communication
producer: the attacker produces, oﬀers or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed
consumer ones are probably more prevalent

2. Explain syn flooding.
 an attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets. The server ﬁlls its table with these half-open connections

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
if you make it a bigger queue, they just need to add mroe packets
if you shorten time out peoriod, they just need to add packets at a faster rate
its difficult to discuss which are suspicious ips

Lecture 72
1. How well does packet filtering work to prevent attacks?
Not very

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion preven- tion systems?
IDS: analyze traﬃc patterns and react to anomalous patterns
IPS: attempts to prevent intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
over-provisioning the network—have too many servers to be overwhelmed
ﬁltering attack packets—somehow distinguish the attack packets from regular packets
slow down processing—disadvantages all requestors, but perhaps disproportionately disadvantages attackers
“Speak-up” solution —request additional traﬃc from all requestors.

Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
false negative: a genuine attack is not detected
false positive: harmless behavior is mis-classiﬁed as an attack
false positive as you prevent useres from accessing what they need, probably adding to your bounce rate

2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.
accurate: if it detects all genuine attacks;
precise: if it never reports legitimate behavior as an attack.

3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise?
You can block everything, then it will block all genuine attacks. You can report nothing so it will never report legitimate behavior.

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
The idea of false positives. In IDS, there is a high chance its a false positive

Lecture 74
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
If date is between 1st and 19th of the month, generate a random list of IP addresses and attempt to infect those machines.
It basically attempted to take down www1.whitehouse.gov with a ddos attack

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
it had a static seed, was memory resident, and it always probed the same list of ips

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the implications.
The code was living in memory, so it would disappear after a reboot

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
it used a random seed. meaning it would target many more machines than before and also spread faster

Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
they all attempted to create a network of slave machines

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme?
It wanted to spread more succesfully than its predecessors, and being more careful about the ips probably had an increased chance of a hit

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
it created slave machines that could be used to run zombie processes as a root from the master machine

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
this means the people could keep on releasing the same virus and still expect them to work as many machines did not add patches to fix them. MAJOR SECURITY ISSUE!

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study?
This implies that many users who did install the patches are victims hackers as hackers have a tendency to mess with newer releases i suppose. The major takeway would be to be careful when installing patches and perhaps waiting a few days to see the implications of installing the patches.
