Hw for Vaibhav Gupta
VG6663

Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
	by providing a certification regime, customers don't all have to individually check and reafirm the validity of the product. this would especially be a problem since they do not always have the resources by which to confirm their values
2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
	* set of requirments defining security functionality
	* set of assurances requirments needed for establishing the functional requirements
	* a methodology for determining that the functional requirements are not met
	* a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system
3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
	There are more ways to breach security
4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
	1: basic security, at least 1 approved algo or f(x)
	2: improved physical security, tamper-evident packaging
	3: strong tamper-resistance and countermeasures
	4: complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering

Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
	* cc documents
	* cc evaluation methodology
	* country-specific evaluation methodologies called an Evaluation Scheme or National Scheme
2. What’s “common” about it?
	its a common method via which to evaluate secure systems
3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
	PP: a description of a family of products in terms of threats, environmental issues and assumptions, security objectives, and requirements of the Common Criteria
	ST: document that contains the security requirements of a product to be evaluated (TOE), and speciﬁes the measures oﬀered by the product to meet those requirements

Lecture 78
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS example.
	to make sure that all waste bins are colelcted and cleared
2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified in the WBIS example)?
	to place counteract measures against potential threats
3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
	to understand what threats are accounted for by what portion of the protection profile

Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by the Sun Identity Manager example.
	To create a system on which you can set a standard by which to submit for evaluation
2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection profile evaluation?
	A security target can be more vast than a protection profile

Lecture 80
1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
	Evaluation under the Common Criteria targets a speciﬁed level of rigor
2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
	the gov of the country
3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries.
	the methodolgy which which they are tested can vary and its similar as to why a bank would want to verify you are who you say you are for them selves rather than taking on faith of another party
4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
	No, this would lead to a cycle where a vendor whose certification is flawed could be approving other flawed products
5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code?
	Then you are only testing for scenarios for which the code was designed, rather than genric possible models
