Vaibhav Gupta
VG6663

Lecture 5
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A military database?
	Cell Phone Network - Only let the people in a connection know about the details of the conversation
	Military Database - Do not let information flow down in ranks
2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
	A metapolicy is only an abstract sense of what security you need, while a policy is system specific refinement
3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic records.
	1. students have read only access to grades
	2. students should only see either own record
	3. teachers can only view/modify records of students in their class
4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
	Yes, as someone who is in i banking could want to use insider trading to make more money
5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
	An SSN should not be shared with unauthorized people
6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
	The policy is a system specific implementation of the metapolicy. If you dont understand why the metapolicy exists, you can't explain why the policy exists

Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?
	Much of the information is sensitive. The latter two are not considered
2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
	A general who has access to the data can take data anywhere he pleases
3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
	You assume the general to be a trusted source
4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
	Level - the amount of clearance you need to read/write
	Category - Selected regions of data you can read/write
5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
	They are already determined by the person who wrote the file
6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
	1. The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.
	2. The British have broken the German Enigma codes
	3. Col. Jones just got a raise. - 4. Col. Smith didn’t get a raise.
	5. The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today. - 6. The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
	1. Top Secret:{Battle Plans}
	2. Top Secret:{War Updates}
	3,4. Secret:{Col Jones}
	5,6. Unclassified:{}
8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
	You need access to all categories

Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to humans?
	ID cards
2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for humans.
	humans have clearance, documents have access
3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents? Of humans?
	documents = files. humans = users
4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
	Less they know, less likely chance of information going into the wrong hands
5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the third column do or do not make sense.
	Sensitivity <= Clearance implies yes otherwise No

Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?
	To help abstract out the idea
2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
	x <= x : True
	if x <= y, and y<=x, then x = y : True, since this can only be true if the level is the same and the categories are as well
	if x <= y and y <= z, then x <= z : True, since the level of x <= y <= z and the categories of x are a subset of y which are a subset of z
3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
	Take levell:{x} and level2:{y}
	neither dominates each other and they are ntoe equal
4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
	They must be the same
5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
	Subject S with clearance (LS,CS) may be granted read access to object O with classification (LO,CO) only if (LS,CS)≥(LO,CO).
6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
	because iff implies equivalance

Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
	I can copy a document and write it as unclassified
2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
	To prevent someone from passing information down
3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that particularly important?
	Viruses may cause information leaks
4. State informally what the *-Property says.
	You can only pass information up while writing a document
5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an object?
	(LS,CS) = (LO,CO)
6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send orders to the private (Unclassified)?
	We provide two personas for the general
7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how we might deal with that.
	Don't provide information that the war plan exists or require read access to write a file

Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
	Allow adding of categories or removal as needed
2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
	Because then the system cannot be adapted in that case
3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
	Classified information may be passed down
4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level) to be secure.
	The subject downgrading should have access writes to all documents on that level to confirm that downgrading this object will not compromise any unintended information
