Hw for Vaibhav Gupta
VG6663

Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had read access to all ﬁles, but write access to none of them. What levels might you give to subjects and objects.
	Put all subjects at a level higher than all objects
2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?
	You can just compute the relations on the fly

Lecture 12
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one category A. Draw the lattice.
	 H{A}
	^    ^
	|    |
   H{}  L{A}
	^    ^
	|    |
     L{}
2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for ﬁnding their LUB and GLB?
	Follow the path up to find the GLB
	Follow the path up to find the LUB
3. Explain why upward ﬂow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
	All the rules, the star property and Simple security, are made to provide a structure to that metapolicy

Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the example on slide 2 (ﬂows only from L to H).
	The *Property prevents those with higher access from writing files that have lower access
	Simple Security prevents those with lower access from reading files that have higher access
2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
	READ: The subject must dominate the object (Simple Security)
	WRITE: The object must dominate the subject (*-Propery)
3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
	CREATE: Information of the subjects level is staying at the subjects level
	DESTROY: No information is being passed downwards, destroy can be viewed as WRITE(S,O,NULL)
4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
	The system must be blp
5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
	To delete the file and remove its contents. Also it would not let the original owner know that the conents of the file were changed
6. Are the contents of any ﬁles different in the two paths?
	No
7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
	It has to attempt to read the file in both cases. Yes
8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
	It has to set initial permissions on the object. Yes
9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
	Because 1-bit information can be be passed down in a BLP, using a loop you can send a stream of binary info down the channel, thus causing a security leak

Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
	this is subject to subject communication which BLP was not designed for
2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
			Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0)  | Write (SH, F0, 1)
	Read (SL, F0)  | Read (SL, F0)
	No, SL will read 0 both times
3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel #1?
	The error message
4. In Covert Channel #2?
	The time that p choose to run
5. In Covert Channel #3?
	The order in which values are returned
6. In Covert Channel #4?
	the value of l
7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
	it takes long time before you can get a bit of data
8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
	Hardware access would be needed
9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
	Energy generators or vehicles

Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth, can potentially be very serious threats.
	Given enough time, you could transmits petabytes of data still
2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
	Every system has them, its similar to removing bugs in your program, as its impossible to envision every possible scenario
3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
	Close the channel, observe the channel, increase noise
4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
	Whenever I access a website, i leave packets in it. those packets can be accessed by malicious people to attempt to immiate my web signature
5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and receiver.
	As long as both have access to it, the sender can do a write / nothing action. while the reciever does a write /read / destroy action. it will recieve a 0 or 1 depending on the sender

Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “ﬁle existence” attribute?
	Because "create" is a modification
2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential channel?
	if someone can check if they have a r/m then its a binary flow of info
3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
	No, an R or M should never be in the same column
4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM table?
	It suggests where covert channels may exist
