CS361 Questions: Week 5

Lecture 23
1. Are the SD and ID categories in Lipner’s model related to each other?
	Yes, something with SD must have ID
2. Why is it necessary for system controllers to have to ability to downgrade?
	So you can transfer code from development to producture (common level)
3. Can system controllers modify development code/test data?
	Nope
4. What form of tranquility underlies the downgrade ability?
	changing the label

Lecture 24
1. What is the purpose of the four fundamental concerns of Clark and Wilson?
	to confirm the security
2. What are some possible examples of CDIs in a commercial setting?
	Bank balances, checks, etc
3. What are some possible examples of UDIs in a commercial setting?
	candy on the counter
4. What is the difference between certiﬁcation and enforcement rules?
	certification is checked before performing, enforcement is checked while performing
5. Give an example of a permission in a commercial setting.
	{user A, deposit $10, {user A's bank account}}

Lecture 25
1. Why would a consultant hired by American Airlines potentially have a breach of conﬁdentiality if also hired by United Airlines?
	conflict of interest, could give info to UA about AA's plans
2. In the example conﬂict classes, if you accessed a ﬁle from GM, then subsequently accessed a ﬁle from Microsoft, will you then be able to access another ﬁle from GM?
	Yes, unless you accessed a part of microsoft which was in direct competition with the file you were accessing in GM
3. Following the previous question, what companies’ ﬁles are available for access according to the simple security rule?
	anything not in direct competition with the previous companies
4. What differences separate the Chinese Wall policy from the BLP model?
	Chinese Wall changes permissions dynamically based on the subjects history

Lecture 26
1. What beneﬁts are there in associating permissions with roles, rather than subjects?
	you can chagne the role in general or change priveledges much easier on a large scale
2. What is the difference between authorized roles and active roles?
	authorized roles - the roles they can be
	active roles - what they are doing now
3. What is the difference between role authorization and transaction authorization?
	active role much be authorized for hte subject
	a transction can only be done if its in the actions for the active role
4. What disadvantages do standard access control policies have when compared to RBAC?
	giving someone just slightly more privledges would be a pain (like advanced teller, you need a new role now)

Lecture 27
1. Why would one not want to build an explicit ACM for an access control system?
	its mostly a sparse matrix, so waste of time
2. Name, in order, the ACM alternatives for storing permissions with objects, storing permissions with subjects and computing permissions on the ﬂy.
	* set of rules of compute on the fly - No specific name
	* store permissions with objects - ACL
	* store with subjects - Capabilities
