CS361 Questions: Week 7

Lecture 34
1. Why is it impossible to transmit a signal over a channel at an average rate greater than C/h?
	You can't send it better than the physical limits
2. How can increasing the redundancy of the coding scheme increase the reliability of transmitting a message over a noisy channel?
	It will account for lost packets of lost bits

Lecture 35
1. If we want to transmit the numbers 0-9, using a zero-order model, what is the entropy of the language?
	h = -log(1/11)
2. What are reasons why computing the entropy of a natural language is difficult?
	Ex: you can jumble the letters and still have high pass through rate, letters can be missing
	Languages have a lot of redundancy
3. Explain the difference between zero, first, second and third-order models.
	zero 	: naive encoding
	first	: account for probability of usage
	second	: accounting for pairs of letters that come together
	third 	: accouting for sequences of 3 letter that follow each other

Lecture 36
1. Why are prior probabilities sometimes impossible to compute?
	You often dont know all the information
2. Why is the information content of a message relative to the state of knowledge of an observer?
	example of academy awards from the video: the speaker has entropy 0 since they know, while audience doesn't
3. Explain the relationship between entropy and redundancy.
	if encoding matches entropy, there is no redundancy


Lecture 37
1. List your observations along with their relevance to cryptography about Captain Kidd’s encrypted message.
	*lots of numbers, could be coordinates
	*semicolons? (as end)
	*what language?
2. Explain why a key may be optional for the processes of encryption or decryption.
	to make it private and harder to decrypt to others. Otherwise the key could be the null character
3. What effect does encrypting a message have on the information content of a file?
	it distorts the data and makes it harder to read raw
4. How can redundancy in the source give clues to the decoding process?
	all redundancy can be encrypted in a pattern

Lecture 38
1. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(D(E(P)))).
	P
2. Rewrite the following in its simplest form: D(E(E(P,KE),KE),KD).
	E(P,KE)
3. Why might a cryptanalyst want to recognize patterns in encrypted messages?
	That would give hints as to where redundancy in the initial data existed
4. How might properties of language be of use to a cryptanalyst?
	redundancy will be represented in both. You can then backtrace and have some insight about the encrypted data

Lecture 39
1. Explain why an encryption algorithm, while breakable, may not be feasible to break?
	You run all possible keys within a reasonable time
2. Why, given a small number of plaintext/ciphertext pairs encrypted under key K, can K be recovered by exhaustive search in an expected time on the order of 2n−1 operations?
	that is the number of possible keys
3. Explain why substitution and transposition are both important in ciphers.
	substituation = confusion
	transposition = diffusion
4. Explain the difference between confusion and diffusion.
	confusion = replacing a simple, cause trouble obtaining the raw data
	diffusion = move it away from original location
5. Is confusion or diffusion better for encryption?
	both are important as you need a combination to make it a robust algorithm